Convincing skeptics to get the vaccine is easier said than done, especially in rural areas that are heavily Republican. NBC News political reporter Von Hilliard is in Pineville, Missouri. Von, if I understand correctly, that county has the second lowest vaccination rate in all of Missouri. Why are people there so hesitant to get a COVID shot? You're exactly right, Allison. We're talking about just 5% of the county here fully vaccinated and just 8% of the folks in this county have received the first dose here. And that comes down to the very heart of the question. Why is there this hesitancy here that is prevailing based off of conversations we've had with folks? And these numbers are reflected in polling where self-described Republicans across the country, about half of them say that either they're not going to get a vaccine or they're going to wait and see. And in some conversations with folks, including the ones you're about to hear, that's very much what we heard. Take a listen. I don't care if I look like the wise guy or the dumb guy. It's my decision. I just decided I'm not going to do it. I'm a guinea pig if that's the case. Yeah, I'm not going to get the COVID vaccine. I don't feel like I, I don't know. I just feel like I'm good. I don't need to. I take vitamins and whatnot and I'm pretty healthy. Alison, again, we need to underscore the fact that public health officials, including those locally here, have said that the vaccine is safe and have gotten the vaccine themselves. But what you continue to hear is this prevailing lack of trust in the government. This isn't just a 2021 thing or a coronavirus vaccine thing, but this is a mounting, ever growing distrust in the government at large. Vaughn, you did find some people who got the vaccine. So what did they tell you? Yeah, I want to let you hear from a couple of them who did get the vaccine, and we were actually just down the road. There's a clinic that was underway today and there will be tomorrow. The supply is here in town. It's a matter of folks calling up and making their appointment. Hear from some of these folks who did get their vaccine, talking about others in their community. Oh, I've heard quite a few people say they're not going to get it. They're afraid to put things in their body. They're afraid they're going to get something from it. They're afraid that just I don't know. There's I haven't heard any good reason why people aren't going to get it. All you got to do is go to Facebook and you'll get bombarded with the people thinking that the vaccine is going to kill them. And it's more than just in this community. And it's more than just in this community. You're seeing this reflected nationally in these mostly largely white conservative rural communities, even up on Capitol Hill. In the U.S. House, there are still more than 100 members who have declined to receive a vaccine, despite it being available to them over the last three months, Alison. All right, Von Hilliard, we always love having you on News Now. Great to see you there in Missouri. Hey, NBC News viewers, thanks for checking out our YouTube channel. Subscribe by clicking on that button down here and click on any of the videos over here to watch the latest interviews, show highlights and digital exclusives. Thanks for watching.
